Collections of code written by others. 
To import a library, we use the keyword 'import' followed by the name of the library. 
You should do this at the beginning of your file.

To access a method inside a library, we put the name of the library and the dot before the function.

To import more than one library at once, sepparate them by commas

import os, time

RANDOM LIBRARY

import random

number = random.randint(1, 100)

OS LIBRARY / MISCELLANIOUS OPERATING SYSTEM INTERFACES

The os library allows you to "talk" to your console.

OS LIBRARY / OS.SYSTEM("CLEAR")

You can use this function to clear the screen.

import os

os.system("clear") # Clears away everything that is on the console right after it appears

OS LIBRARY / LISTDIR()

The listdir() function can be used to list all files and directories (folder) in the current directory.

import os
print(os.listdir()) # Lists all the files in the current directory as a list. Useful for checking that a file is in the folder we think it is.

files = os.listdir()

if "quickSave.txt" not in files:
  print("Error: Quick Save not found.")
#Checks if a file is in a directory and outputs an error if not.

OS LIBRARY / OS.MKDIR()

You can use the os.mkdir() method to create a folder or directory and name it.

import os

os.mkdir("Hello") # Creates a folder called 'Hello'

OS LIBRARY / OS.RENAME()

You can use the os.rename() method to rename a file or directory (folder).

os.rename() takes 2 arguments: the file to rename and the new name.

import os

os.rename("myname.txt", "NEW.o")

OS / OS.PATH() AND OS.PATH.JOIN()

A file path is a sequence of file and folder names. This sequence of names takes you to a certain place on your computer’s operating system (OS).

E.g.:

/Users/Teresa/tutorials/README.md

The os.path module in Python is used for common pathname manipulations. 
It provides a set of functions that can be used to manipulate file and directory paths in a way that is independent of the underlying operating system.

os.path.join() combines path names into one complete path. 
It helps build a path to a file or a directory by joining different parts together.
This means that you can merge multiple parts of a path into one, instead of hard-coding every path name manually.

Sometimes trying to access a file path in other ways can fail because of things like difference between operating systems.

os.path.joing() is a more reliable way to access a file path. 
It simplifies the task of creating file paths by handling the differences between operating systems and ensuring the correct formatting.

import os

filename = os.path.join("Folder/", "file.txt")

f = open(filename, "w"

f.write("Hi")

f.close()


TIME LIBRARY

The time library allows you to pause the script of a determined amount of time.

import time

time.sleep(n) # where n is the number of seconds you want to pause the program for
