OS LIBRARY / MISCELLANIOUS OPERATING SYSTEM INTERFACES

The os library allows you to "talk" to your console.

OS LIBRARY / OS.SYSTEM("CLEAR")

You can use this function to clear the screen.

import os

os.system("clear") # Clears away everything that is on the console right after it appears

OS LIBRARY / LISTDIR()

The listdir() function can be used to list all files and directories (folder) in the current directory.

import os
print(os.listdir()) # Lists all the files in the current directory as a list. Useful for checking that a file is in the folder we think it is.

files = os.listdir()

if "quickSave.txt" not in files:
  print("Error: Quick Save not found.")
#Checks if a file is in a directory and outputs an error if not.

OS LIBRARY / OS.MKDIR()

You can use the os.mkdir() method to create a folder or directory and name it.

import os

os.mkdir("Hello") # Creates a folder called 'Hello'

OS LIBRARY / OS.RENAME()

You can use the os.rename() method to rename a file or directory (folder).

os.rename() takes 2 arguments: the file to rename and the new name.

import os

os.rename("myname.txt", "NEW.o")

OS / OS.PATH() AND OS.PATH.JOIN()

A file path is a sequence of file and folder names. This sequence of names takes you to a certain place on your computer’s operating system (OS).

E.g.:

/Users/Teresa/tutorials/README.md

The os.path module in Python is used for common pathname manipulations. 
It provides a set of functions that can be used to manipulate file and directory paths in a way that is independent of the underlying operating system.

os.path.join() combines path names into one complete path. 
It helps build a path to a file or a directory by joining different parts together.
This means that you can merge multiple parts of a path into one, instead of hard-coding every path name manually.

Sometimes trying to access a file path in other ways can fail because of things like difference between operating systems.

os.path.join() is a more reliable way to access a file path. 
It simplifies the task of creating file paths by handling the differences between operating systems and ensuring the correct formatting.

The correct syntax of os.path.join() is:

os.path.join("Path of folder", "Name of file")

import os

filename = os.path.join("Invoices/2023/", "December.csv")

f = open(filename, "w")

f.write("Hi")

f.close()
